
                    QLM - Quicknr Light Markup

To start creating a web page, type the page title, up to 80 characters
long. Indent the title 2 or more spaces from the left margin.

The title is mandatory for news pages, and should not be preceded with 
a date. The date will be created automatically in news pages.

Surround the title with square brackets if it should appear in the 
browser window bar only, not in the page. [Home], for example.

Press Return twice after the title, and start typing the body text 
of the page, with no indent. Separate paragraphs with empty lines.

For short and simple news updates on your website, that is all you need 
to know. HTML and CSS code will take care of the rest. Read on, if you 
want to learn about text styling, linking and lists.

Words and phrases can be *made bold* by surrounding them with asterisk 
(*) characters, _italic_ with underscores (_), or `monospaced` with 
backticks (`). No spaces in between, this won't work: * mistake *.

You can divide the page into sections with headings (one level, no
sub-headings). As with titles, indent headings 2 or more spaces:

                          Heading

To create a link, place the URL in square brackets and precede it 
with the linked text: [Google https://www.google.com]. External links 
must begin with "www." or "http".

If the URL links to an image - ".jpg", ".png", ".gif", or ".svg" - the 
image will be displayed, and the preceding text will be its caption:

[Cat taking a selfie www.cool-cat-pix.com/selfie.jpg]

To link to one of your own images, enter its filepath, relative to the 
eventual HTML document, as the URL. In the following example, the image 
has the correct path if used in a Quicknr news page:

[On the beach images/holiday.jpg] For things to flow nicely on the 
page, image links must be in their own paragraphs (cat image above) or 
at the beginning of a paragraph of text (holiday image here).

For the image to act as a link, immediately follow the image link with 
the link you want it to point to, no space in between:

[Click to enlarge res/img/thumbs/mypic.jpg][res/img/mypic-large.jpg]

YouTube videos are easy to display, with a link on its own:

[www.youtube.com/embed/video]

Unordered lists - flat, not nested, one line per item - are also easy: 

* List item one
* Another list item
* Third item

Numbered lists in this format will be recognized and converted too.

Note:
A paragraph beginning with "Note:" will appear as a separate, styled 
block. There can be a single line break after the double-colon ":", as 
in this example, but not an empty line, which would make it a separate 
HTML paragraph. Any word can be used instead of "Note".

HTML markup is not supported, it will be treated as literal text.

And that is all there is to it. Could this be any simpler?
